samples: event_manager: Add EM profiling sample (#6047)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/event_manager_profiler/README.rst

.. _event_manager_profiling_sample:

Event Manager profiling tracer
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Event Manager profiling tracer sample demonstrates the functionality of profiling :ref:`event_manager` events using the :ref:`profiler` and the Event Manager profiling tracer modules.

Reviewer: I would add reference to Event Manager Profiler tracer instead of profiler.

Author: Will add as soon as documentation for it will be merged.

Reviewer: Keep in mind to add the ref

.. _event_manager_profiler_sample:

Event Manager Profiler
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Event Manager Profiler sample demonstrates the functionality of profiling :ref:`event_manager` events by :ref:`profiler`.

Overview
********

The sample application consists of two modules that communicate using events:

Module a (``module_a.c``):
  This module waits for a configuration event (which is sent by ``main.c``).
  After receiving this event, it starts sending periodic event one sec event to module b.
  The module also has a counter which is inreased before one sec event is send and which value is transmited in the event.
  When the module receives a five sec event from the module b, it zeros counter and simulates work for 100ms by sleeping.

Module b (``module_b.c``):
  This module waits for one sec events from the module a.
  Every time a one sec event is received, the module checks if value it transmits is equal to 5.
  If it is equal module b sends a five sec event.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading

>    :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns, nrf52dk_nrf52832, nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

Reviewer 2: No, we don't.

Configuration
*************

|config|

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/event_manager_profiler`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

> 1. Run the script real_time_plot.py (located under scripts/profiler).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the script :file:`real_time_plot.py` located under :file:`scripts/profiler`.
```

>    As an argument, pass the name that should be used to store the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Pass the name that should be used to store the data as an argument.
```

>    For example, run real_time_plot.py test_name to generate a test_name.csv and a test_name.json file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   For example, run :file:`real_time_plot.py test_name` to generate a :file:`test_name.csv` and a :file:`test_name.json` file.
```

>    The script opens a GUI window that displays events as points on timelines. See the Profiler documentation for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The script opens a GUI window that displays events as points on timelines. See the :ref:`profiler` documentation for more information.
```

> #. Observe GUI output similar to the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe the GUI output similar to the following:
```

   .. figure:: /images/event_manager_profiling_sample.png
      :scale: 50 %
      :alt: Diagram of GUI output

      Sample profiler GUI output

> #. Observe generated files (in this case test_name.csv and a test_name.json file).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe the generated files such as the :file`test_name.csv` and :file`test_name.json` files in this case.
```

.. _event_manager_profiling_sample:

Event Manager profiling tracer
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Event Manager profiling tracer sample demonstrates the functionality of profiling :ref:`event_manager` events using the :ref:`profiler` and the Event Manager profiling tracer modules.

The sample application consists of the following modules that communicate using events:

> * Module a (:file:`module_a.c`) - This module waits for a configuration event sent by ``main.c``.

Reviewer: Shouldn't main.c also be a :file: ?

  If it is equal to 5, then module b sends a five second event.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns, nrf52dk_nrf52832, nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

Configuration
*************

|config|

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/event_manager_profiler`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Run the script :file:`real_time_plot.py` located in the :file:`scripts/profiler` folder, with the name that is to be used to store the data as argument.
   For example, run the following command to generate a :file:`test_name.csv` and a :file:`test_name.json` file using the *test_name* argument:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      real_time_plot.py *test_name*

   The script opens a GUI window that displays events as points on timelines, similar to the following:

>    .. figure:: /images/event_manager_profiling_sample.png

Reviewer 2: The image has a black line at the bottom. Please redo the framing to remove this line.

   :depth: 2

The Event Manager profiling tracer sample demonstrates the functionality of profiling :ref:`event_manager` events using the :ref:`profiler` and the :ref:`event_manager_profiler_tracer` modules.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns, nrf52dk_nrf52832, nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf21540dk_nrf52840

Overview
********

The sample application consists of the following modules that communicate using events:

* Module A (:file:`module_a.c`)
* Module B (:file:`module_b.c`)

Module A waits for a configuration event sent by :file:`main.c`.
After receiving this event, Module A starts sending periodic events every second to Module B.
Module A also has a counter that increases before a :c:struct:`one_sec_event` is sent.
The counter value is transmitted during the event.

Module B waits for the :c:struct:`one_sec_event` events from Module A.
Every time it receives a :c:struct:`one_sec_event`, the module checks if the value it transmits is equal to ``5``.
If it is equal to ``5``, Module B sends a :c:struct:`five_sec_event` to Module A.

> When Module A receives a :c:struct:`five_sec_event` from Module B, it zeros the counter, sends a series of 50 :c:struct:`burst_event`, and simulates work for 100 ms by busy waiting.

Reviewer 2: Can you present this as an msc diagram with help from @MarekPieta ?

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      real_time_plot.py *test_name*

   The script opens a GUI window that displays events as points on timelines, similar to the following:

   .. include:: ../../doc/nrf/libraries/others/profiler.rst
      :start-after: profiler_GUI_start
      :end-before: profiler_GUI_end

#. Use scroll wheel to zoom into interesting parts on a GUI.
   See the :ref:`profiler_backends_custom_visualization` in the Profiler documentation for more information about how to work with the diagram.
#. Click the middle mouse button to highlight an event submission or processing for tracking, and to display the event data as on a figure:

   .. figure:: ../../doc/nrf/images/event_manager_profiling_sample_zoom.png
      :scale: 50 %
      :alt: Diagram of GUI output zoomed in

      Sample diagram of zoomed-in GUI output

   On this image, the zoom focuses on actions triggered by the fifth one-second event.
   The five-second event triggers 50 burst events.
   One event submission and corresponding processing time is highlighted in green.
#. Check the results for the generated :file:`test_name.csv` and :file:`test_name.json` files.

> #. See how events are logged with data transmitted by the event.

Reviewer 2: Any specifics about what should be checked and how the logged events look?

Author: It is a csv file each row is new event occurrence. Table columns have titles.

The sample application consists of two modules that communicate using events:

> Module a (``module_a.c``):

Reviewer: Fix split into 2 commits. It seems like it's not proper now.

>   This module waits for a configuration event sent by ``main.c``.

Reviewer: Maybe we could name modules using more user-friendly names that provide some information about what given module does ?

Reviewer: It is easier to refer to the modules in that case

Author: In my opinion if we have only two modules + main naming them with some unique name is more confusing because user will start to wonder which modules are necessary for every  application (like main) and which are only for sample (all other).
